# myrepoDS241
 DS241

In this class, we were introduced to the basics of data manipulation and pre-processing to analyze data for statistical decisionmaking, building the skills required to organize, visualize, and communicate using data. We were given data from the world of science collected from a multitude of sources.  The primary tool for coding we used was R/RStudio.  The
course emphasizes not only the low-level coding skills, but also the higher-level critical and quantitative reasoning skills required to analyze real-world datasets. Topics introduced were key concepts such as descriptive statistics and sampling distribution and the basic analysis tools of Linear Regression and Data Mining.  We used Data Science in a Box, by Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel and R for Data Science, by Hadley Wickham as reference materials.  By the end of the semester, we were expected to be able to describe key data science process activities – forming a process goal, gathering and cleaning data, data exploration, data modeling, and communication.  As we conclude the semester, students were asked to compose a repository on github to share with other students or programmers the skills we learned throughout the semester.  Within my repository, I have included relevant data, html filed, and .rmd files to show others key skills I learned throughout the course. I included projects related to the following: visualizing data using ggplot2 (scatterplot, histogram, barchart, lineplot), manipulating data (demonstrate dplyr verbs   filter, summarise, join, select, rename, slice), data loading and tidying and cleaning (to include pivot-wider and pivot-longer), and information on the data science process.
